>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
FEBRUARY 23rd.
NEW REVELATIONS ABOUT HOW TH
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD REACTED TO
THE FINANCIAL CRISIS OF 2008
ALSO, INDIGENOUS PEOPLE LIVING
ON REMOTE RIVERS AROUND TH
WORLD ARE COMMUNICATING WITH
EACH OTHER ABOUT CLEANING UP
THEIR WATERWAYS AND EXERCISING
THEIR RIGHTS
>> THOSE TEST OF THOUSANDS O
VOICES, THEY HAVE BEEN IGNORED
OVER THE YEARS
THEY'VE BEEN DISENFRANCHISED
BUT AS THEY COME TOGETHER,
THERE'S BEEN SOME REALIZATIONS
ALONG THE WAY.
>>> AND THE GOVERNMENT'S STILL
STRUGGLING TO CARE FOR TROOP
RETURNING HOME WITH PTSD
>>> THE UNITED STATES TODA
CAUTIONED RUSSIA AGAINST
INTERVENING IN UKRAINE
NOW THAT THE PRO-MOSCOW REGIME
HAS SURRENDERED POWER TO THOSE
SEEKING CLOSER TIES TO THE WEST.
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER SUSA
RICE SAID IT'S IN THE INTEREST
OF BOTH THE UNITED STATES AN
RUSSIA THAT PEACE IN UKRAINE B
MAINTAINED
DOZENS WERE KILLED IN CLASHE
THERE EARLIER IN THE WEEK.
>> THERE IS NOT AN INHEREN
CONTRADICTION, DAVID, BETWEEN
UKRAINE THAT HAS LONGSTANDIN
HISTORIC AND CULTURAL TIES T
RUSSIA AND A MODERN UKRAINE THAT
WANTS TO INTEGRATE MORE CLOSEL
WITH EUROPE.
>> VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH IS BELIEVED
TO BE IN A CITY NEAR THE RUSSIAN
BORDER
EASTERN UKRAINE IS CLOSELY
ALIGNED WITH RUSSIA THAN THE
WESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY AN
SOME THINK UKRAINE COULD SPLIT
INTO TWO
IN ONE CITY THERE WERE CLASHES
BETWEEN PRO-RUSSIAN AN
PRO-WESTERN DEMONSTRATORS.
RICE SAID SHE HOPED TH
COUNTRIES WOULD REMAIN INTACT.
>> IT'S NOT IN THE INTERESTS O
UKRAINE OR RUSSIA OR EUROPE OR
THE UNITED STATES TO SEE THE
COUNTRY SPLIT.
IT'S IN NOBODY'S INTEREST TO SEE
VIOLENCE RETURN AND TH
SITUATION ESCALATE
>> THIS WEEKEND IN KIEV, THRONGS
OF UKRAINIANS TOURED
YANUKOVYCH'S LUXURIOUS HOME AN
WENT ABOARD HIS YACHT.
THE GROUNDS HAD BEEN OFF-LIMIT
TO THE PUBLIC UNTIL YESTERDAY.
THE UKRAINIAN PARLIAMENT VOTED
TO GRANT NEW POWERS TO THE
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE UNTIL
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS ARE HEL
IN LATE MAY.
LAWMAKERS DISMISSED TO
YANUKOVYCH AIDES
>>> THE NATION'S LEADING POWER
ANNOUNCED NEW STEPS TO STIMULATE
THE ECONOMY PLEDGING TO MAINTAIN
LOW INTEREST RATES AND TAK
OTHER MEASURES TO SPUR ECONOMI
GROWTH
THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUN
EXPECTS THE WORLD ECONOMY TO
GROW BY 3.7% THIS YEAR AND 3.9
IN 2015.
GROWTH IN THE UNITED STATES IS
EXPECTED TO BE SLOWER THAN THAT.
>>> THERE'S BEEN A DEADL
TALIBAN ATTACK ON AFGHAN
GOVERNMENT TROOPS.
AUTHORITIES SAY 21 AFGHA
SOLDIERS WERE KILLED WHE
HUNDREDS OF TALIBAN INSURGENTS
ATTACKED AN ARMY CHECKPOINT IN
THE EAST OF THE COUNTRY.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF AMERICA
AND NATO FORCES ARE EXPECTED T
LEAVE AFGHANISTAN BY THE END O
THE YEAR
THERE'S ALSO BEEN A DEADLY
ATTACK AGAINST POLICE IN
NEIGHBORING PAKISTAN
AUTHORITIES SAY A BOMB EXPLODE
IN A MOTORIZED RICKSHAW, KILLING
SEVEN PEOPLE AND WOUNDING TEN.
THE BLAST OCCURRED IN AN ARE
WHERE -- IN PAKISTAN WHERE THE
TALIBAN IS ACTIVE.
>>> NEW INFORMATION HOW SEVERELY
IMMIGRATION PROCEEDINGS HAVE
SLOWED FOLLOWING THE GOVERNMEN
SHUTDOWN
AP SAYS MORE THAN 37,000
IMMIGRATION HEARINGS WERE PUSHED
BACK, SOME FOR MONTHS, SOME INTO
NEXT YEAR.
THE DELAYS ARE ALSO ATTRIBUTED
TO A BALLOONING CASELOAD AND
STAFFING SHORTAGES
THEY AFFECT BOTH THOSE WHO MIGHT
GET GREEN CARDS AND THOSE WH
MIGHT BE DEPORTED.
>>> TAKING SELFIES, PICTURES O
YOURSELF, MAY BE A RELATIVEL
NEW TREND.
BUT ONE BOSTON COLLEGE
PHOTOGRAPHY PROFESSOR HAS BEEN
AT IT FOR ALMOST 27 YEARS NOW.
EVERY DAY SINCE HE WAS 34 YEAR
OLD, KARL BADEN HAS BEEN TAKIN
SELF-PORTRAITS AS PART OF AN ART
PROJECT.
NOW 61, BADEN PLANS TO CONTINU
THE PROJECT AS LONG AS HE CAN.
AND YES, HE SAYS HE DID MISS ONE
DAY, IN 1991
HE SAYS HE JUST FORGOT
>>> IN THE PAST FEW DAYS WE'VE
GOTTEN NEW INSIGHTS INTO HOW THE
NATION'S CENTRAL BANKERS REACTED
TO THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC MELTDOW
OF 2008.
THIS WITH THE RELEASE OF THE
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD'
TRANSCRIPTS FROM THAT TIME
WITH MORE ABOUT THIS, JOHN JOINS
US FROM WASHINGTON
TAKE US BACK IF WE HAD A MACHINE
TO 2008, WHAT'S THE SETTIN
WHERE THESE CONVERSATIONS AR
TAKING PLACE
>> IT'S A MOMENT OF CRISIS AND A
PERIOD WHERE FED OFFICIALS ARE
CONSTANTLY PLAYING CATCH-UP,
CONSTANTLY TRYING TO KEEP UP
WITH EVENTS THAT ARE SPIRALING
OUT OF CONTROL
THERE ARE MOMENTS WHEN THEY FEEL
LIKE THEY'RE AHEAD OF THE CURV
BUT THERE ARE MANY MOMENTS WHE
THEY'RE CLEARLY BEHIND THE
CURVE.
>> SO HINDSIGHT'S 20/20 BU
LET'S START LOOKING AT DIFFERENT
CHARACTERS HERE.
AFTER THE COLLAPSE OF LEHMAN
BROTHERS, WHAT'S BEN BERNANK
THINKING
>> RIGHT AFTER THE COLLAPSE OF
LEHMAN BROTHERS IS KIND OF HIS
LAST MOMENT OF HOPEFULNESS THA
MAYBE THEY CAN ESCAPE THIS THING
WITHOUT A DISASTER
THERE'S A MEETING ACTUALLY TWO
DAYS AFTER THAT SUNDAY, THAT
FATEFUL SUNDAY NIGHT, WHEN THE
GOVERNMENT DECIDED TO LET LEHMAN
BROTHERS GO.
BERNANKE SAYS IN THIS MEETING,
MAYBE MONETARY POLICY, THE LEVEL
OF INTEREST RATES, IS IN THE
RIGHT PLACE.
THEY HAD KEPT THEM AT 2%
WITHIN A MATTER OF DAY
EVERYTHING CHANGES
THEY'RE IN THE PROCESS O
BAILING OUT AIG.
36 HOURS LATER, BEN BERNANKE AND
HANK PAULSON GO TO CONGRESS AN
THEY SAY THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS
TO STEP UP AND BAIL OUT TH
WHOLE BANKING SYSTEM
AND WITHIN A MATTER OF WEEKS
HE'S MOVING TO SLASH INTERES
RATES.
SO, YOU KNOW, BERNANKE -- THAT
SEPTEMBER MEETING WAS REALLY A
GREAT EXAMPLE OF HIM PLAYING
CATCH-UP AND NOT IMMEDIATELY
RECOGNIZING THE GRAVITY OF
EVENTS THAT WERE IN FRONT OF
HIM.
>> OKAY.
HOW ABOUT TIM GEITHNER
HE LATER GOES ON TO BE TREASUR
SECRETARY.
WHAT WERE HIS POSITIONS AT THE
TIME
>> TIM GEITHNER'S A VERY
INTERESTING CHARACTER HERE
HE SPENDS A LOT OF TIME IN THESE
MEETINGS SPARRING AND JOUSTING
WITH THE FED'S POLICY HAWKS.
OFFICIALS FROM REGIONAL FEDERA
RESERVE BANKS WHO ARE MORE
WORRIED ABOUT INFLATION THAN
WITH THE FINANCIAL SYSTE
STABILITY.
AND GEITHNER SPENDS A LOT OF
TIME JOUSTING WITH THEM.
FRANKLY, YOU KNOW, THERE'S SOM
MOMENTS HERE WHERE HE LOOKS LIKE
HE'S BEHIND THE CURVE.
THERE'S A JANUARY 2008 MEETING
WHERE GEITHNER GIVES HIS
ASSESSMENT OF THE FINANCIA
SYSTEM, AND HE SAYS IT LOOKS
LIKE THE PROCESS OF HEALING HA
ALREADY STARTED.
HE COULDN'T HAVE BEEN MORE WRONG
IN THAT CASE
>> LET'S TALK ALSO ABOUT JANET
YELLEN, FED CHAIRMAN NOW
WHAT WAS HER BEHAVIOR THEN, WHAT
CAN WE GLEAN FROM THAT
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT GO
YELLEN THIS JOB WAS A SENSE SH
HAD VERY GOOD JUDGMENT, THAT I
2007 WHEN WE LOOKED AT EARLIER
TRANSCRIPTS SHE WAS ONE OF THE
FIRST PEOPLE TO SAY, HEY, WE
HAVE REAL PROBLEMS IN THIS
HOUSING MARKET
WE KNOW FROM THEIR DECISIO
SINCE 2008 SHE'S PUSHED VERY
HARD TO KEEP INTEREST RATES LOW.
AND HASN'T BEEN TOO WORRIE
ABOUT INFLATION.
THESE 2008 TRANSCRIPTS I THINK
CONFIRM THIS SENSE THAT THE LADY
HAS PRETTY GOOD JUDGMENT
SHE WAS USUALLY ONE OF THE
PEOPLE IN THE ROOM SAYING THAT
SHE WAS CONCERNED THAT THE
FINANCIAL SYSTEM WAS IN GRAV
DANGER
>> ALL RIGHT, JOHN HILLSENRATH
FROM "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL,
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANKS A LOT.
>>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
AN EXTRAORDINARY EFFORT IS UNDER
WAY TO CONNECT AND EMPOWER SOM
OF THE WORLD'S LEAST-POWERFU
PEOPLE
MEMBERS OF INDIGENOUS TRIBES
LIVING IN REMOTE CORNERS OF TH
GLOBE.
THE GOAL IS TO HELP THEM
EXCHANGE IDEAS ABOUT HOW T
RESTORE THEIR ONCE-PRISTIN
RIVERS AND PRESERVE THEI
THREATENED HERITAGES AND TO HELP
THEM UNDERSTAND THEIR LEGA
RIGHTS
NEWSHOUR" SPECIAL CORRESPONDEN
JOHN LARSON TRAVELED TO ALASKA
RECENTLY AND REPORTS
>> Reporter: YOU'RE ABOARD A
MOTORIZED CANOE TRAVELING TH
HEADWATERS OF THE AMAZON I
PERU
NOW YOU TRAVEL THE GIRAFFE
RIVER, A TRIBUTARY OF THE WHIT
NILE, IN SOUTH SUDAN
AND NOW YOU'RE NAVIGATING TH
STEWARD RIVER IN CANADA, A
TRIBUTARY OF THE LONGEST
FREE-FLOWING RIVER ON EARTH, THE
YUKON OF NORTH AMERICA
ALL OF THESE ARE AMONG THE MOS
REMOTE RIVERS IN THE WORLD
AND THE INDIGENOUS PEOPLE WH
LIVE ALONG THEM ARE BEIN
CONNECTED, AT LEAST IN PART, B
ONE MAN.
>> HAD A COUPLE OF CANOES, W
WERE GOING TO GO DOWN THE RIVE
AND TALK TO PEOPLE IN EVER
VILLAGE ALONG THE WAY.
>> Reporter: BACK IN 2007, JOH
WATERHOUSE, A TRIBAL LEADER AN
ENVIRONMENTALIST WHO HAS SPENT
THE LAST 20 YEARS IN ALASKA, WAS
ASKED TO WRITE A REPORT ABOU
THE YUKON RIVER.
THE PLAN WAS TO TAKE A CANOE
TRIP AND INTERVIEW VILLAGERS WHO
DEPEND ON THE RIVER FOR THEI
SURVIVAL
>> THREE WEEKS BEFORE WE LEFT
SAT DOWN WITH EVERYBODY AND
SAID, THIS ISN'T GOING TO WORK
THEY SAID WHAT DO YOU MEAN
AND I SAID, NOBODY ON THE WHOL
PLANET IS GOING TO CARE.
IT'S JUST TOO KUMBAYA, PEOPL
ARE GOING TO THINK IT'S A BUNC
OF HIPPIES GOING DOWN THE RIVER.
WE'VE GOT TO ADD IN MODERN
SCIENCE.
>> Reporter: WHAT HAPPENED NEX
WOULD PLAY AN IMPORTANT ROLE
HELPING DEFINE TRIBAL RIGHTS
ALONG THE YUKON AND CONNECTING
RIVER PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD.
THE GROUP BROUGHT SOPHISTICATE
WATER QUALITY TESTIN
INSTRUMENTS, TAGGING PRECISE
LOCATIONS IN THE RIVER
YOU WERE DRAGGING A PROBE OU
THE BACK OF CAT 92, JUST LIK
YOUR GREAT ANCESTORS HAD DONE.
AND THAT PROBE WAS TESTING FOR
WHAT
>> 13 DIFFERENT PARAMETERS
♪♪
>> Reporter: WATERHOUSE'S RIVE
TRIPS BECAME YEARLY EVENTS
DUBBED "HEALING JOURNEYS."
SUPPORTED BY THE YUKON RIVER
INTERTRIBAL WATERSHED COUNCIL,
THE LARGEST INTERNATIONA
ORGANIZATION OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLE IN THE WORLD.
THE YUKON WATERSHED IS IMMENSE
STRETCHING 2,000 MILES FRO
CANADA TO ALASKA, AN AREA ALMOST
TWICE THE SIZE OF CALIFORNIA AND
RICH IN NATURAL RESOURCES.
AND WHILE IT'S PRISTINE BY MUC
OF THE WORLD'S STANDARDS, TH
RIVER IS NOT NEARLY AS CLEAN A
YOU MIGHT THINK.
MINING OPERATIONS HAVE POLLUTE
THE RIVER FOR DECADES.
VILLAGES ARE LITTERED WITH
HAZARDOUS WASTE.
THE U.S. MILITARY DISCARDE
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF FUE
DRUMS ON THE BANKS OF THE RIVER.
AND ALL THE WHILE, THE YUKON
SALMON RUN, WHICH HAD ANYBODIE
TRIBAL PEOPLE HERE FOR THOUSANDS
OF YEARS, BEGAN COLLAPSING
>> WHAT A LOT OF OUR
MEASUREMENTS HAVE BEEN IS JUST
TO GET AN IDEA OF WHAT IS NORMAL
FOR THE YUKON RIVER.
>> Reporter: WATERHOUSE'S TEAM
HELPED TRAIN YUKON RIVER
VILLAGERS TO CONDUCT
SOPHISTICATED WATER SAMPLING
AND EACH YEAR THESE PREMOT
VILLAGERS SENT THEIR GROWING
DATABASE OFF TO FEDERA
SCIENTISTS
RYAN TUOHY IS AN ENVIRONMENT
ALGAE ON THE FOR U.S. GEOLOGICAL
SURVEY
>> ON THE WHOLE IT WAS REALL
IMPRESSIVE HOW GOOD THE DATA
WAS.
AND THESE ARE FOLKS THAT
LITERALLY LIVE, YOU KNOW, DAYS
FROM THE NEAREST ROAD SYSTEM
THAT ARE DOING THIS.
>> IT'S EVERYTHING TO US
>> Reporter: TRIBAL LEADERS FROM
AROUND THE WORLD BEGAN COMING TO
THE YUKON FOR TRIBAL MEETING
AND INVITING JOHN WATERHOUSE T
TRAVEL TO THEIR OWN REMOTE
RIVERS
FIRST HE VISITED THE LENA RIVE
IN SIBERIA
AND THEN TO THE URABOMBA RIVER
IN PERU.
THE PEOPLE THERE WERE FACING
SOME OF THE SAME PROBLEMS THAT
THE TRIBES ALONG THE YUKON HAD
FACED.
>> THEY KNOW THAT SOMETHING'
WRONG WITH THE FISH IN THE MAI
STEM OF THE RIVER.
THEY WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSTAN
WHAT THE CAUSE OF THAT IS.
>> Reporter: LIKE THE YUKON, THE
URABOMBA IS ALSO THREATENED.
THE AREA IS RICH IN OIL, GAS
NATURAL RESOURCES AND HA
SUFFERED PIPELINE BREAKS AND
TOXIC SPILLS FROM GOLD MINES
LAST YEAR, WATERHOUSE BROUGH
HIS TESTING EQUIPMENT.
HIS TEAM IS NOW TEACHING THE
PEOPLE TO GATHER INFORMATION O
THE RIVER.
>> Translator: COMES HAVE BEEN
COMING IN AND POLLUTING.
THEY SAY THEY DON'T, BUT THE
ARE.
>> Reporter: TRIBAL LEADERS HOPE
WITH WATERHOUSE'S HELP THEY CA
GATHER SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE THA
MIGHT HELP THEM KEEP THEIR RIVER
CLEAN.
>> Translator: THEY CAN SHOW U
HOW TO FACE THESE COMPANIES AN
THE TIMBER INDUSTRIES THAT HAV
INVADED OUR LANDS AND RESOURCES.
>> Reporter: BACK ON THE YUKON
IN NORTH AMERICA, TRIBAL LEADERS
LAST YEAR DID JUST THAT.
THEY USED THEIR YEARS OF WATER
QUALITY TESTING TO CREATE
DETAILED YUKON WATERSHED PLAN.
THE PLAN INCLUDED A DISARMINGL
SIMPLE VISION -- TO BE ABLE TO
DRINK WATER DIRECTLY FROM TH
YUKON RIVER.
SOMETHING THAT'S NO LONGER
POSSIBLE IN MANY PLACES.
>> OUR RESPONSIBILITY NOW IS T
CAPTURE THOSE WATER RIGHTS
WE HAVE TALKED TO THE FEDERA
GOVERNMENT AND PUT THEM ON
NOTICE, THIS IS AT THE DIRECTION
OF OUR LEADERSHIP, WE EXPECT
GOCHT CONFRONTATION.
>> Reporter: THE PLAN PU
CANADIAN AND U.S. GOVERNMENTS,
CITY LANDFILL, SEWAGE, POWER
AUTHORITIES, AS WELL AS OIL, GAS
AND MINING COMPANIES ON NOTICE
>> ONE OF MY FIRST PHONE CALLS
WAS JUST, WHAT THE HELL DO YOU
FOLKS THINK YOU'RE DOING
I SAID, WE'RE ASSERTING OU
RIGHTS
IF I'M A GOLD MINER THAT SOUND
LIKE A THREAT.
YOU CAN DO WHATEVER YOU WANT A
LONG AS YOU'RE NOT INFRINGIN
UPON THE RIGHTS TO CLEAN WATER
>> Reporter: THE UNITED NATIONS,
THE U.S. AND CANADIA
GOVERNMENTS, HAVE ALL STATED
THAT TRIBAL PEOPLE DO HAVE LEGAL
RIGHTS INVOLVING CLEAN WATER
RIGHTS WHICH WILL LIKELY B
TESTED IN COURTROOMS IN COMING
YEARS.
TO WHAT EXTENT IS THIS A DAVID
AND GOLIATH STORY?
OF ALL THESE THOUSANDS, TENS O
THOUSANDS OF DAVIDS STARTING T
TALK TO EACH OTHER
>> WELL, WHEN YOU PUT IT THA
WAY, TENS OF THOUSANDS O
DAVIDS, THAT'S A PRETTY STRONG
VOICE.
VOICES, THEY HAVE BEEN IGNORED
OVER THE YEARS
THEY'VE BEEN DISENFRANCHISED
BUT AS THEY COME TOGETHER,
THERE'S BEEN SOME REALIZATIONS
ALONG THE WAY.
THERE'S A REALIZATION THAT
ACTUALLY IS THEIR LEGAL RIGHT TO
HAVE CLEAN WATER
>> AND OF COURSE WE GET REQUESTS
FROM UP AND DOWN THE RIVER
>> Reporter: I MET WATERHOUS
AND HIS WIFE PHOTOGRAPHER MARY
MARSHALL IN ALASKA THIS WINTER
THEY HAD RECEIVED A SECOND GRANT
FROM THE NATIONAL SCIENC
FOUNDATION FOR WHAT THEY CAL
THE NETWORK OF INDIGENOU
KNOWLEDGE.
THE NETWORK WILL CONNECT RIVER
PEOPLE IN ALASKA AND CANADA WITH
TRIBES IN SIBERIA, PERU, AND
SOON, SOUTH SUDAN AND BOTSWANA
ALLOWING THEM TO SHARE
SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION AND
CULTURAL HISTORIES
>> THERE ARE SO MANY VOICES, S
MANY UNHEARD VOICES IN THI
WORLD.
THERE ARE INDIGENOUS PEOPLE WH
LIVE VERY FAR AWAY FROM ANY CITY
OR PLACE THAT WE'RE FAMILIAR
WITH
AND FOR THEM TO BE FOUND AND
RECOGNIZED AND HANDED
MICROPHONE IS JUST HUGE.
>> THEN WHEN IT'S TIME T
RECORD, YOU PUSH THE RED BUTTO
LIKE THIS --
>> Reporter: CHRIS RANIER, A
"NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC" EXPLORER
HAS MADE A LIVING DOCUMENTIN
THE LIVES OF THE WORLD'S MOS
REMOTE PEOPLE.
AS PART OF THE NETWORK HE'S NO
HELPING TEACH THEM HOW TO GATHER
AND UPLOAD THEIR STORIES
>> SO WE'VE BROUGHT IN
COMPUTERS, CAMERAS, VIDE
CAMERAS, TO GIVE THEM AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SHARE THE STORIES
OF THEIR FORESTS, OF THE RIVER
FISHING, KIND OF CREATE
CONNECTION TO ALASKA, TO MANY OF
THE INDIGENOUS CULTURES AROUND
THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: THE STORIES INCLUDE
THIS VALLEY OF DEATH WHERE THE
BELIEVE THE DEVIL CAME TO EARTH.
AND THIS, A SIX SQUARE MIL
PRESERVE WITH MORE SPECIES O
LIFE THAN ANY OTHE
SIMILAR-SIZED PLACE ON EARTH
THEY BELIEVE THIS IS THE
BIRTHPLACE OF ALL LIFE
AND THE GATEWAY TO THE NEX
WORLD.
AND THIS IS WHERE AN IMPORTANT
ADDITIONAL ELEMENT OF TH
NETWORK OF INDIGENOUS KNOWLEDG
COMES IN
SCIENTISTS ARE BECOMIN
INCREASINGLY RECEPTIVE TO WHAT'S
RECOGNIZED AS TRADITIONA
KNOWLEDGE.
THE EXTENSIVE COLLECTION O
ENVIRONMENTAL OBSERVATIONS AND
WISDOM PASSED DOWN AMONG
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE.
PEOPLE WHO HAVE LIVED IN ONE
ENVIRONMENT, IN MANY CASES FOR
THOUMS OF YEARS.
>> THERE'S JUST A WEALTH O
INFORMATION IN THAT INDIGENOUS
KNOWLEDGE THAT CAN REALLY HELP
WESTERN SCIENTISTS FOCUS THEIR
RESEARCH QUESTIONS EVEN MORE
>> Reporter: ESPECIALLY AS THE
WORLD'S SCIENTISTS NOW ATTEMPT
TO UNDERSTAND THE EFFECTS OF
CLIMATE CHANGE
FOR EXAMPLE, YUKON TRIBES AR
NOW HELPING U.S. SCIENTIST
MEASURE MELTING PERMAFROST, TH
LAYER OF UNDERGROUND ICE THAT WE
USED TO BELIEVE WAS PERMANENTL
FROZEN
BUT NOT ANYMORE.
>> IN ORDER TO ASSESS TH
CHANGES THAT THE CLIMATE ARE
HAVING ON THE ENVIRONMENT, W
HAVE TO HAVE LONG-TERM DATA.
>> Reporter: AND IT'S THAT IDE
OF THE LONG TERM, HOW THE MODERN
STUDY OF GLOBAL CHANGE, COUL
BENEFIT FROM ANCIENT KNOWLEDGE
THIS YEAR, WATERHOUSE WILL
RETURN TO SIBERIA AND PERU FOR
THE RESULTS OF WATER QUALITY
TESTS AND COLLECT SOME OF TH
GATHERED STORIES, HELPING SOME
OF THE MOST REMOTE PEOPLE ON
EARTH TALK WITH EACH OTHER ABOUT
THE HEALTH OF THE WORLD'
RIVERS
>>> LEARN HOW MELTING IC
THREATENS THE LIFE STYES O
NATIVE ALASKANS.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> IT'S ESTIMATED THAT NEARLY
1,000 ADDITIONAL IRAQ AN
AFGHANISTAN VETERANS ARE BEING
DIAGNOSED WITH POST-TRAUMATI
STRESS DISORDER EVERY WEEK
A REPORT OUT THURSDAY BY THE
INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE SAI
DESPITE DOZENS OF THE PROGRAMS
THE MILITARY HAS TO HELP TREAT
THE MENTAL ILLNESSES VETERAN
SUFFER FEW ARE PROVING
EFFECTIVE.
FOR MORE, WE'RE JOINED BY GREG
OF "USA TODAY" WHO'S COVERIN
THIS STORY
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ASKE
FOR THIS REVIEW.
>> IT REALLY WAS A REVIE
THAT -- THE REQUEST WAS REALLY
BUILT ON SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED
LAST YEAR.
THE INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE HA
COMPLETED A FOUR-YEAR REVIEW O
JUST HOW PREVALENT THE PROBLEM
WAS.
AND THEY FOUND THAT THE NUMBER
OF FOLKS WHO WERE ILL WERE
REALLY KIND OF GETTING SO LARG
THAT BOTH THE PENTAGON AND V
WERE HAVING TROUBLE STAYIN
AHEAD OF IT.
THE PENTAGON ASKED FOR THI
REPORT
WE'VE GOT PREVENTION PROGRAM
OUT THERE, WHY AREN'T THEY
WORKING?
ESSENTIALLY WHAT THIS PANEL AT
INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE FOUND WA
THAT WHILE SOME OF THESE IDEAS
IN THEORY MADE A LOT OF SENSE,
WHEN THEY WERE INTRODUCE
EARLIER IN THE WAR, THAT THERE
REALLY HADN'T BEEN A STRON
EFFORT BY THE PENTAGON AND SOM
OF THE BRANCHES TO TRY T
UNDERSTAND WHETHER TO DO SOM
REAL STRONG SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH,
WHETHER THE PROGRAMS WORKED.
THEY FOUND THAT IN FACT THEY
HADN'T
>> WHICH IDEAS WERE THEY
FOCUSING ON IN THEIR REPORT?
>> THEY LOOKED AT KIND OF --
THEY BUILT ON A RAND STUDY THA
IDENTIFIED ABOUT 94 OF THESE
PROGRAMS OUT THERE, AND THEY -
FROM THAT THEY KIND OF FOCUSED
ON SOME OF THE KEY ONES.
AND I THINK AT THE TOP OF TH
LIST WAS REALLY KIND OF TH
GRANDDADDY OF ALL THE PROGRAMS
THAT'S AN ARMY ONE CALLE
COMPREHENSIVE SOLDIER FITNESS.
IT'S NOW CALLED COMPREHENSIV
SOLDIER AND FAMILY FITNESS
IT COSTS QUITE A LOT OF MONEY.
IT REACHES HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF SOLDIERS.
AND THEY FOUND THAT THEY DIDN'
THINK IT REALLY WORKED
>> AND SO WHAT'S THE ARMY'
RESPONSE TO THIS WHEN THEY SAY
THAT THIS ISN'T WORKING?
IF IT'S BEEN USED ON A MILLION
DIFFERENT SOLDIERS NOW
>> WELL, THEY'RE VERY DEFENSIV
ABOUT IT
THEY IN FACT THINK THAT IT DOE
WORK
THEY SAY THEIR INTERNAL SCORIN
SHOWS THAT IT IMPROVES POSITIV
THINKING, IT KIND OF HELPS
SOLDIERS LEARN TO THRIVE, HELP
THEM DEAL WITH ADVERSITY
THEY DO ADMIT, THE ARMY DOES
WHEN THEY CREATED THE PROGRAM IN
2009, AS THE NUMBERS OF PTSD AND
SUICIDE WERE BEGINNING TO RISE
THEY WERE TRYING TO DEAL WIT
PREVENTION AT THAT POINT
AND THEY MODIFIED THE PROGRA
SINCE THEN
IT REALLY ISN'T SO MUCH
PREVENTION PROGRAM, THEY SAY
NOW THEY SAY IT'S MORE T
IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF SOLDIERS'
LIVES, HELP THEM DEAL WITH
ADVERSITY.
>> SO WHAT IS WORKING?
HAVE SUICIDES GONE DOWN?
>> NO.
WELL, ACTUALLY IN THIS LAST YEAR
THERE WAS A REDUCTION FOR TH
FIRST TIME AMONG ACTIVE-DUTY
TROOPS
THOSE WHO ARE NOT GUARD,
RESERVE, ON INACTIVE STATUS.
THEY FOUND THE NUMBERS HAD
DROPPED FOR THE FIRST TIME I
ALMOST TEN YEARS
BY ABOUT 20% WIND THE ARMY
AND THAT WAS SOMETHING THEY WERE
VERY HAPPY ABOUT
BUT IT WAS A MODEST DECLINE.
IT ISN'T CLEAR WHETHER THEY'VE
ACTUALLY TURNED THE CORNER
THE ARMY WILL SAY THAT
THEMSELVES
THEY STILL HAVE LARGE NUMBERS AS
YOU QUOTED OF FOLKS WHO AR
DEVELOPING PTSD.
SOME OF THE PROGRAMS THEY SA
SHOW PROMISE
THERE WAS ONE SMALL PROGRAM TH
ARMY HAS CALLED BATTLE MIN
WHICH IS DESIGNED TO HEL
SOLDIERS DEAL WITH RE-INTE
GRACE, HELPING THEM UNDERSTAND
WHAT THEY GO THROUGH IN COMBAT
ARE FEELINGS THAT OTHERS DO, TRY
TO NORMALIZE THOSE FEELINGS.
AND THAT HAS BEEN SHOWN TO HAV
SOME MODEST BENEFITS THROUGH
PEER-REVIEWED RESEARCH
>> ALL RIGHT, GREG, "USA TODAY,"
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND SUNDAY."
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, THE WINTE
OLYMPICS IN SOCHI ARE ENDING BUT
THE PARALYMPICS ARE SET TO
BEGIN.
ONE OF THE FEATURED SPORTS
SLED HOCKEY.
JAY CHEFSKI IN CHICAGO EXPLAIN
WHAT IT IS AND INTRODUCES YOU TO
A ONE-TIME OLYMPIAN IN THE
SPORT.
>> Reporter: THE GEAR THAT A
SLED HOCKEY PLAYER PUTS ON T
FOR A GAME IS PRETTY MUCH TH
SAME AS FOR AN ABLE-BODIED
PLAYER
WITH ONE KEY DIFFERENCE.
INSTEAD OF SKATES, THERE IS THIS
SLED WITH BLADES ON THE BOTTOM
SLED HOCKEY IS PLAYED BY PEOPL
WITH LOWER-LIMB DISABILITIES
LIKE SPINAL CORD INJURIES AN
AMPUTATIONS.
HOW THIS IS DIFFERENT FROM
REGULAR HOCKEY
>> REGULAR HOCKEY USES LEGS,
WE'RE USING OUR ARMS
>> Reporter: ONE OTHER
DIFFERENCE, EACH PLAYER HAS TW
HOCKEY STICKS.
PATRICK BURN HAS BEEN PLAYIN
FOR ABOUT 15 YEARS
HE'S NOT ONLY A PLAYER, HE'S ONE
OF THE COACHES
>> LOST A LEG IN A CONSTRUCTIO
ACCIDENT IN '92.
JUST REALLY CHANGED MY -
CHANGED MY LIFE.
>> Reporter: AND AT FIRST, H
SAYS HE WAS SUICIDAL
>> BEFORE I'D LOST MY LEG, I
LOOKED ACROSS THE STREET AND I
SEEN A PERSON IN A WHEELCHAIR.
AND I SEEN HOW SHE WAS
STRUGGLING
AND I SAID TO MYSELF, IF I WAS
EVER IN THAT SITUATION I WOULD
THINK I'D RATHER BE DEAD
>> Reporter: PATRICK SAYS THAT
BEFORE HIS ACCIDENT, HE WA
NEVER MUCH INTO SPORTS
BUT HE SAYS SLED HOCKEY AN
OTHER SPORTS HAVE CHANGED HI
LIFE
PATRICK BURN PLAYED ON THE 200
U.S. SLED HOCKEY TEAM AT THE
PARALYMPICS.
THE TEAM WAS A LONG SHOT
BUT THEY CAME BACK WITH GOLD
>> WORDS CAN'T DESCRIBE IT
TEARS STARTED ROLLING.
IT'S JUST LIKE, DID WE JUST WI
THE GOLD
THE GREAT THING ABOUT SPORTS
THAT I LOVE, AND A LOT OF TH
GUYS HERE LOVE, IT MAKES YOU
FEEL LIKE YOU'RE NOT DISABLED.
>> JOIN US ONLINE AND ON-AIR
TOMORROW ON THE "NEWSHOUR.
THE SUPREME COURT HEAR
ARGUMENTS IN A CASE TESTING TH
EPA'S POWER TO REGULAT
GREENHOUSE GASES
PLUS WHAT IS THE TPP
WE EXPLAIN THE MAJOR TRADE PAC
WITH ASIA IN THE WORKS
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.